---
title: Yamp
slug: yamp
date: 2016-09-18
tags: [JavaScript]
---

> Yet Another Markdown Parser

[Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) is cool. With a simple syntax[^1] is possible to create document form webpages to presentation slides (and, of course, this same blog you are reading). **Yamp** is here to simplify your work with markdown for whatever you are using it. Check Yamp in action [here](https://angrykoala.github.io/yamp/index.html).

<!-- truncate -->

## Features

-   HTML conversion
-   PDF conversion
-   Code highlight support
-   Github-style output
-   API to use _yamp_ programmatically
-   Custom styles
-   CSS-embedded HTML (just open it offline in any browser)
-   HTML tags support (for PDF output too)
-   Include other files in your markdown
-   [HTML presentations](https://remarkjs.com/)
-   Koalafied

## Basic Manual

Yamp allows you to convert a markdown file into other formats such as Html or Pdf. Also, it provides templates and styles out of the box to make the conversion as simple as possible.

### Installation

To install _yamp_ you can clone the project from [Github](https://github.com/angrykoala/yamp) or simple install it from the npm repository[^2].

Assuming npm is installed in your system:

```
npm install -g yamp
```

-   If you have the GitHub project, execute `npm install -g .`

_Yamp requires Node.js version 4.0.0 or higher_

### Usage

With `yamp my_file.md` your markdown file will be converted to pdf directly

-   To convert to html use: `yamp my_file.md --html`
-   To convert to html and pdf use: `yamp my_file.md --html --pdf`

There are several options in _yamp_:

-   `-h`, `--help` to display a basic usage information
-   `-V`, `--version` to display _yamp_ version installed
-   `-o`, `--output <file>` output filename (without extension) e.g. `yamp my_file.md -o final_name`
-   `--pdf` to generate a pdf (default)
-   `--html`to generate html
-   `--remark`to generate a html presentation using [remark](https://remarkjs.com)
-   `-t`, `--title [value]` to add a custom title to Html pages
-   `--style <file>` to set a custom CSS stylesheet
    -   Option not suported along with `--no-style`
-   `--no-style` to disable CSS styling
    -   Options not supported along with `--style <file>`
-   `--minify` to minify Html output
-   `--no-tags` to disable custom Yamp tags
-   `--no-highlight` to disable code [highlight](https://highlightjs.org)
-   `-k`, `--koala` to koalify your outputs

### Yamp tags

_Yamp_ supports extra tags in your markdown files. Currently using [xejs](https://github.com/angrykoala/xejs) templates. All tags are written between double braces `{%raw%}{{ ... }}{%endraw%}` and are not case-sensitive.

-   `{%raw%}{{include [file.md]}}{%endraw%}`: Includes the given text file (markdown or not), the tags on the included file will also be parsed, allowing nested file structure.
-   `{%raw%}{{date}}{%endraw%}`: Will write the current date (at the moment of rendering).
-   `{%raw%}{{page break}}{%endraw%}`: Will force a page break in pdf output.
-   `{%raw%}{{yamp version}}{%endraw%}`: Will display the yamp version used to render the document.

For example, if we have the documents:

```md
## My title

This is the first file
{%raw%}{{include file2.md}}{%endraw}
{%raw%}{{page break}}{%endraw}
The end
```

_file1.md_

```md
This is the second file
```

_file2.md_

The resulting file will be:

```md
## My title

This is the first file
This is the second file
The end
```

And when rendered into pdf, The end will be in a different page

## For Pros

Yamp can also be used as a npm module:

To install yamp as dependency:

```
npm install --save yamp
```

To add it as a node.js dependency:

```
var yamp=require('yamp');
```

### Yamp API

Include _yamp_ in your javascript with:

```js
var yamp = require("yamp");
```

You'll have access to different _renderers_ to process your files:

-   `yamp.renderers.html` to process a markdown file into an full Html page
-   `yamp.renderers.pdf` to process a markdown into a pdf

To use a renderer:

```js
var myRenderer = new renderers.pdf(options);
renderer.renderFile(myFile, function (err) {
    if (err) return console.log("Error while rendering: " + err);
    else console.log("Rendering was successful");
});
```

#### Options

The options accepted by the default renderers are:

-   **outputFilename**: name of the output filename (without extension), will default to the input filename
-   **highlight**: (_true_) indicates if code blocks should be highlighted
-   **style**: (_true_) indicates if default style should be used or no style at all. If a filename is passed, it will use it as custom css style
-   **minify**: (_false_) whether the Html output should be minified or not
-   **title**: Custom title for the Html page
-   **tags**: (_true_) whether to parse yamp tags or not (`{%raw%}{{ ... }}{%endraw%}`)
-   **koala**: (_false_) true to koalify your outputs

### Creating new renderers

If you need a custom renderer, instead of using one of the defaults you can extend directly from **Renderer** class or any of the default renderers:

```js
class MyCustomRenderer extends yamp.Renderer {
    constructor(options) {
        super(options, "default.ejs", yamp.parsers.md2Html);
        this.output = "html"; //desired output extension
    }

    beforeLoad(filename) {
        //Modify filename or this.fileLoader before loading it
    }

    beforeRender(templateOptions) {
        // Modify the data passed to the template before rendering, including title, content and options
    }

    afterRender(content) {
        // Modify template result (Html)
    }

    fileOutput(content, done) {
        // Write file (preferably to this.options.outputFilename) in the desired format using a parser
    }
}
```

**Custom parser:** It is possible to use a custom parser from markdown to Html instead of the built-in _yamp.parsers.md2html_, the parser must be a function of the type `function(originalString,options,callback)` that will translate from `originalString` (markdown) to html, calling the `callback(err,res)` afterwards.

If, instead of extending from `yamp.Renderer` you are extending from one of the default renderers, you should only re-implement the methods you need, and usually you should call `super().methodName` to maintain its basic functionality.

[^1]: Mastering markdown: https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown
[^2]: What is npm?: https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/what-is-npm
